# PAKDD 2025 Tutorial on Developing Data Driven Automated Negotiation Strategies

Tutorial Information: [http://www.yasserm.com/tutorials/pakdd.html](http://www.yasserm.com/tutorials/pakdd.html)

Negotiation is one of the most prevalent mechanisms for achieving agreement among parties with overlapping interests, thereby facilitating their collaboration. Automated negotiation involves autonomous agents, either negotiating among themselves, or with humans on behalf of their (ultimately human) users. Negotiation research can be traced back to the seminal work of Nash on bargaining theory, and Rubinstein’s analysis of the alternating offers protocol in the perfect-information case, both major game-theoretic advances. More recently, research in AN has attracted academic researchers in multi-agent systems and machine learning, as well as industrial researchers at companies like NEC, Pactum and mysupply. A testimony to this recent growth is the steady increase in interest in the International Automated Negotiating Agents Competition (ANAC), which was first hosted at AAMAS in 2010 with 7 teams, moved to IJCAI in 2017, and its 15th incarnation was completed in conjunction with AAMAS in 2024 with 48 teams from all over the world. The timing is right to improve AN technology, because of the ever-increasing demand for AI that applies to real business operations, and the pressing need for these AIs to be able to reach agreement in a distributed manner to be of maximal benefit to their users. Hence, the timing is also right for this tutorial which focuses on machine learning data-driven approaches to the problem. Finally, AN provides a unique venue for connecting game theory, machine learning, and data mining that goes beyond classic games.

